# Association between cancer-associated fibroblasts and prognosis of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: a bioinformatics analysis based on single-cell RNA sequencing.

**PMID:** 40025479

**Journal:** Cancer cell international (Cancer Cell Int)

**Keywords:** Cancer-associated fibroblasts, Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, Immune landscape, Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, Prognosis, scRNA-seq

## Abstract

Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is a prevalent and aggressive subtype of esophageal
cancer, posing a significant mortality and economic burden, especially in East and Southeast Asia.
Current therapeutic strategies have limitations in improving patient survival, particularly
regarding disease progression and resistance. This study aimed to investigate the impact of
neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (NCRT) on the ESCC microenvironment.  We utilized single-cell RNA
sequencing to systematically characterize the tumor and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs)
subtypes. Marker genes of myofibroblastic CAFs (myCAFs) were employed to establish a prognostic
model and verify its application in other datasets. Other experiments were conducted on clinical
samples to explore potential ESCC risk-related genes.  Our bioinformatics and statistical analyses
revealed an increased proportion of fibroblasts and epithelial cells in NCRT and identified the
Ep_c1 subtype associated with a better prognosis. Further results indicated a complex communication
network between Ep_c1 and myCAFs. The top 30 marker genes of myCAFs were used to construct a
prognostic signature with a significant response to immunotherapy. Finally, experiments identified
Complement C1s subcomponent (C1S), Decorin (DCN), and Neuroblastoma suppression of tumorigenicity 1
(NBL1) as potential ESCC risk-related genes.  Our findings highlight the dynamic alterations in the
post-NCRT ESCC microenvironment and provide a foundation for the development of personalized
treatment and immunotherapeutic approaches. Future studies are warranted to further validate these
findings and explore their clinical implications.
