# Electroporation-Based CRISPR-Cas9-Mediated Gene Knockout in THP-1 Cells and Single-Cell Clone Isolation.

**PMID:** 40095971

**Journal:** Journal of visualized experiments : JoVE (J Vis Exp)

## Abstract

The human acute monocytic leukemia (AML) THP-1 cell line is widely used as a model to study the
functions of human monocyte-derived macrophages, including their interplay with significant human
pathogens such as the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Compared to other immortalized cell lines
of myeloid origin, THP-1 cells retain many intact inflammatory signaling pathways and display
phenotypic characteristics that more closely resemble those of primary monocytes, including the
ability to differentiate into macrophages when treated with phorbol-12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA).
The use of CRISPR-Cas9 technology to engineer THP-1 cells through targeted gene knockout (KO)
provides a powerful approach to better characterize immune-related mechanisms, including virus-host
interactions. This article describes a protocol for efficient CRISPR-Cas9-based engineering using
electroporation to deliver pre-assembled Cas9:sgRNA ribonucleoproteins into the cell nucleus. Using
multiple sgRNAs targeting the same locus at slightly different positions results in the deletion of
large DNA fragments, thereby increasing editing efficiency, as assessed by the T7 endonuclease I
assay. CRISPR-Cas9-mediated editing at the genetic level was validated by Sanger sequencing followed
by Inference of CRISPR Edits (ICE) analysis. Protein depletion was confirmed by immunoblotting
coupled with a functional assay. Using this protocol, up to 100% indels in the targeted locus and a
decrease of over 95% in protein expression were achieved. The high editing efficiency makes it
convenient to isolate single-cell clones by limiting dilution.
