# Transcriptionally distinct malignant neuroblastoma populations show selective response to adavosertib treatment.

**PMID:** 40118716

**Journal:** Neurotherapeutics : the journal of the American Society for Experimental NeuroTherapeutics (Neurotherapeutics)

**Keywords:** AKT/mTOR pathway, Adavosertib, Cancer therapy, Neuroblastoma, Single cell RNA sequencing

## Abstract

Neuroblastoma is an aggressive childhood cancer that arises from the sympathetic nervous system.
Despite advances in treatment, high-risk neuroblastoma remains difficult to manage due to its
heterogeneous nature and frequent development of drug resistance. Drug repurposing guided by single-
cell analysis presents a promising strategy for identifying new therapeutic options. Here, we aim to
characterize high-risk neuroblastoma subpopulations and identify effective repurposed drugs for
targeted treatment. We performed single-cell transcriptomic analysis of neuroblastoma samples,
integrating bulk RNA-seq data deconvolution with clinical outcomes to define distinct malignant cell
states. Using a systematic drug repurposing pipeline, we identified and validated potential
therapeutic agents targeting specific high-risk neuroblastoma subpopulations. Single-cell analysis
revealed 17 transcriptionally distinct neuroblastoma subpopulations. Survival analysis identified a
highly aggressive subpopulation characterized by elevated UBE2C/PTTG1 expression and poor patient
outcomes, distinct from a less aggressive subpopulation with favorable prognosis. Drug repurposing
screening identified Adavosertib as particularly effective against the aggressive subpopulation,
validated using SK-N-DZ cells as a representative model. Mechanistically, Adavosertib suppressed
cell proliferation through AKT/mTOR pathway disruption, induced G2/M phase cell cycle arrest, and
promoted apoptosis. Further analysis revealed UBE2C and PTTG1 as key molecular drivers of drug
resistance, where their overexpression enhanced proliferation, Adavosertib resistance, and cell
migration. This study establishes a single-cell-based drug repurposing strategy for high-risk
neuroblastoma treatment. Our approach successfully identified Adavosertib as a promising repurposed
therapeutic agent for targeting specific high-risk neuroblastoma subpopulations, providing a
framework for developing more effective personalized treatment strategies.
