# MCL‑1 safeguards activated hair follicle stem cells to enable adult hair regeneration.

**PMID:** 40121237

**Journal:** Nature communications (Nat Commun)

## Abstract

Hair follicles cycle through expansion, regression and quiescence. To investigate the role of MCL‑1,
a BCL‑2 family protein with anti‑apoptotic and apoptosis‑unrelated functions, we delete Mcl‑1 within
the skin epithelium using constitutive and inducible systems. Constitutive Mcl‑1 deletion does not
impair hair follicle organogenesis but leads to gradual hair loss and elimination of hair follicle
stem cells. Acute Mcl‑1 deletion rapidly depletes activated hair follicle stem cells and completely
blocks depilation‑induced hair regeneration in adult mice, while quiescent hair follicle stem cells
remain unaffected. Single‑cell RNA‑seq profiling reveals the engagement of P53 and DNA mismatch
repair signaling in hair follicle stem cells upon depilation‑induced activation. Trp53 deletion
rescues hair regeneration defects caused by acute Mcl‑1 deletion, highlighting a critical interplay
between P53 and MCL‑1 in balancing proliferation and death. The ERBB pathway plays a central role in
sustaining the survival of adult activated hair follicle stem cells by promoting MCL‑1 protein
expression. Remarkably, the loss of a single Bak allele, a pro‑apoptotic Bcl‑2 effector gene,
rescues Mcl‑1 deletion‑induced defects in both hair follicles and mammary glands. These findings
demonstrate the pivotal role of MCL‑1 in inhibiting proliferation stress‑induced apoptosis when
quiescent stem cells activate to fuel tissue regeneration.
