# A novel clinically relevant antagonistic interplay between prolactin and oncogenic YAP-CCN2 pathways as a differentiation therapeutic target in breast cancer.

**PMID:** 40157909

**Journal:** Cell death & disease (Cell Death Dis)

## Abstract

Cellular differentiation limits cellular plasticity allowing cells to attain their specialized
functional characteristics and phenotypes, whereas loss of differentiation is a hallmark of cancer.
Thus, characterizing mechanisms underlying differentiation is key to discover new cancer
therapeutics. We report a novel functional antagonistic relationship between the prolactin
(PRL)/prolactin receptor (PRLR) differentiation pathway and YAP-CCN2 oncogenic pathway in normal
mammary epithelial cells and breast cancer cells that is essential for establishing/maintaining
acinar morphogenesis, cell-cell junctions and the intracellular localization of apical-basal
polarity protein complexes (Par, Crumb and Scrib). Importantly, using CRISPR knockout of the PRLR in
MCF7, HR+ breast cancer cells, further revealed that the negative relationship between PRL/PRLR
pathway and YAP-CCN2 pathway is critical in suppressing luminal-to-basal stem-like lineage
plasticity. Furthermore, the clinical relevance of this interplay was evaluated using bioinformatics
approaches on several human datasets, including samples from normal breast epithelium, breast
cancer, and 33 other cancer types. This analysis revealed a positive correlation between PRLR and
the YAP suppressor Hippo pathway and a co-expression gene network driving favourable patients'
survival outcomes in breast cancer. The therapeutic potential of this interplay was also evaluated
in vitro using MDA-MB-231 cells, a preclinical model of human triple-negative breast cancer, where
treatment with PRL and Verteporfin, an FDA-approved pharmacological YAP-inhibitor, alone or their
combination suppressed the expression of the mesenchymal marker vimentin and the stem cell marker
CD44 as well as reduced their Ki67 proliferative marker expression. Collectively, our results
emphasize the pro-differentiation role of PRL/PRLR pathway in mammary and breast cancer cells and
highlight that promoting PRL/PRLR signaling while inhibiting the YAP-CCN2 oncogenic pathway can be
exploited as a differentiation-based combination therapeutic strategy in breast cancer.
