# High-throughput single cell -omics using semi-permeable capsules.

**PMID:** 40166174

**Journal:** bioRxiv : the preprint server for biology (bioRxiv)

## Abstract

Biological systems are inherently complex and heterogeneous. Deciphering this complexity
increasingly relies on high-throughput analytical methods and tools that efficiently probe the
cellular phenotype and genotype. While recent advancements have enabled various single-cell -omics
assays, their broader applications are inherently limited by the challenge of efficiently conducting
multi-step biochemical assays while retaining various biological analytes. Extending on our previous
work ( <i>1</i> ) here we present a versatile technology based on semi-permeable capsules (SPCs),
tailored for a variety of high-throughput nucleic acid assays, including digital PCR, genome
sequencing, single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-Seq) and FACS-based isolation of individual
transcriptomes based on nucleic acid marker of interest. Being biocompatible, the SPCs support
single-cell cultivation and clonal expansion over long periods of time - a fundamental limitation of
droplet microfluidics systems. Using SPCs we perform scRNA-Seq on white blood cells from patients
with hematopoietic disorders and demonstrate that capsule-based sequencing approach (CapSeq) offers
superior transcript capture, even for the most challenging cell types. By applying CapSeq on acute
myeloid leukemia (AML) samples, we uncover notable changes in transcriptomes of mature granulocytes
and monocytes associated with blast and progenitor cell phenotypes. Accurate representation of the
entirety of the cellular heterogeneity of clinical samples, driving new insights into the
malfunctioning of the innate immune system, and ability to clonally expand individual cells over
long periods of time, positions SPC technology as customizable, highly sensitive and broadly
applicable tool for easy-to-use, scalable single-cell -omics applications.
