# Neuronal activity modulates the expression of secretagogin, a Ca<sup>2+</sup> sensor protein, during mammalian forebrain development.

**PMID:** 40165367

**Journal:** Acta physiologica (Oxford, England) (Acta Physiol (Oxf))

**Keywords:** calcium‐binding protein, light deprivation, neurodevelopmental disorder, single‐cell transcriptomics, trisomy

## Abstract

Because of their stable expression, some EF-hand Ca<sup>2+</sup>-binding proteins are broadly used
as histochemical markers of neurons in the nervous system. Secretagogin is a member of "neuron-
specific" Ca<sup>2+</sup>-sensor proteins, yet variations in its expression due, chiefly, to
neuronal activity remain ambiguous. We aimed to fill this gap of knowledge both in its use as a cell
identity marker and for mechanistic analysis.  We mapped secretagogin distribution in human foetal
forebrains. Then, Scgn-iCre::Ai9 mice in conjunction with single-cell RNA-seq were used to
molecularly characterize cortical secretagogin-expressing neurons. Besides the in vitro manipulation
of both SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells and primary cortical cultures from foetal mice, the activity
dependence of secretagogin expression was also studied upon systemic kainate administration and dark
rearing.  In the mammalian brain, including humans, both transient and stable secretagogin
expression sites exist. In the cerebral cortex, we identified deep-layer pyramidal neurons with
lifelong expression of secretagogin. Secretagogin expression was affected by neuronal activity: it
was delayed in a cohort of human foetuses with Down's syndrome relative to age-matched controls. In
mice, dark rearing reduced secretagogin expression in the superior colliculus, a midbrain structure
whose development is dependent on topographic visual inputs. In contrast, excitation by both KCl
exposure of SH-SY5Y cells and primary cortical neurons in vitro and through systemic kainate
administration in mice increased secretagogin expression.  We suggest that secretagogin expression
in neurons is developmentally regulated and activity dependent.
