# CRISPR screens with trastuzumab emtansine in HER2-positive breast cancer cell lines reveal new insights into drug resistance.

**PMID:** 40165206

**Journal:** Breast cancer research : BCR (Breast Cancer Res)

**Keywords:** Antibody-drug conjugates, CRISPR/Cas9, Drug resistance, Functional genomics, HER2-positive breast cancer, T-DM1, TSC1, TSC2

## Abstract

Trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) is an antibody-drug conjugate that is an effective therapy for
HER2-positive breast cancer; however, its efficacy is limited by drug resistance. While multiple
mechanisms of resistance have been proposed, these are not yet well understood. Greater
understanding of T-DM1 sensitivity and resistance could provide new combination strategies to
overcome resistance or predictive biomarkers to guide therapy.  We have conducted CRISPR/Cas9
functional genomics modifier screens in HER2-positive breast cancer cell lines to allow for unbiased
discovery of T-DM1 sensitivity and resistance genes. Whole-genome knockout screens were carried out
in MDA-MB-361 and MDA-MB-453 cells treated with T-DM1 and its payload cytotoxin DM1. Hits were
validated in secondary T-DM1 screens using a focused single-guide RNA (sgRNA) library and
subsequently by individual gene knockout.  The whole-genome CRISPR screens with T-DM1 and DM1
identified 599 genes as potential modifiers of T-DM1 sensitivity and resistance. Of these, 17 genes
were significantly enriched and 3 genes depleted at P < 0.001 in either or both MDA-MB-361 and MDA-
MB-453 libraries in the secondary screens. Among the top hits, were known T-DM1 sensitivity genes
ERBB2 and SLC46A3, in addition to negative regulators of mTOR complex 1: TSC1 and TSC2. MDA-MB-453
clones with knockout of TSC1 or partial knockout of TSC2 were more resistant to T-DM1 than wild type
cells in competition growth assays and to T-DM1 and other HER2 targeting therapies (T-DXd, lapatinib
and neratinib) in growth inhibition assays, and had increased internalisation of T-DM1 at 6 h. T-DM1
and the mTOR inhibitor everolimus demonstrated synergistic activity at inhibiting cell proliferation
at multiple T-DM1 concentrations across four HER2-positive breast cancer cell lines.  Our CRISPR
screening approach with T-DM1 in HER2-positive breast cancer cell lines identified genes not
previously implicated in T-DM1 sensitivity or resistance, including TSC1 and TSC2. These genes may
inform new strategies to enhance T-DM1 therapy in the clinic.
