# Efficacy of a Novel BCL-xL Degrader, DT2216, in Preclinical Models of JAK2-mutated Post-MPN AML.

**PMID:** 40163809

**Journal:** Blood (Blood)

## Abstract

Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) that evolves from myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN) is known as post-
MPN AML. Current treatments don't significantly extend survival beyond 12 months. BCL-xL has been
found to be overexpressed in leucocytes from MPN patients, making it a potential therapeutic target.
We investigated the role of BCL-xL in post-MPN AML and tested the efficacy of DT2216, a platelet-
sparing BCL-xL proteolysis-targeting chimera (PROTAC), in preclinical models of post-MPN AML. We
found that BCL2L1, the gene encoding BCL-xL, is expressed at higher levels in post-MPN AML patients
compared to those with de novo AML. Single-cell multi-omics analysis revealed that leukemia cells
harboring both MPN-driver and TP53 mutations exhibited higher BCL2L1 expression, elevated scores for
leukemia stem cell, megakaryocyte development, and erythroid progenitor than wild-type cells. BH3
profiling confirmed a strong dependence on BCL-xL in post-MPN AML cells. DT2216 alone, or in
combination with standard AML/MPN therapies, effectively degraded BCL-xL, reduced the apoptotic
threshold, and induced apoptosis in post-MPN AML cells. DT2216 effectively eliminated viable cells
in JAK2-mutant AML cell lines, induced pluripotent stem cell-derived hematopoietic progenitor cells
(iPSC-HPCs), primary samples, and reduced tumor burden in cell line-derived xenograft model in vivo
by degrading BCL-xL. DT2216, either as a single agent or in combination with azacytidine,
effectively inhibited the clonogenic potential of CD34+ leukemia cells from post-MPN AML patients.
In summary, our data indicate that the survival of post-MPN AML is BCL-xL dependent, and DT2216 may
offer therapeutic advantage in this high-risk leukemia subset with limited treatment options.
