# Combination of tumor organoids with advanced technologies: A powerful platform for tumor evolution and treatment response (Review).

**PMID:** 40183402

**Journal:** Molecular medicine reports (Mol Med Rep)

**Keywords:** 3D‑bioprinting, CRISPR‑Cas9, organ‑on‑a‑chip, tissue‑engineered scaffold, tumor organoid

## Abstract

Malignant tumors notably decrease life expectancy. Despite advances in cancer diagnosis and
treatment, the mechanisms underlying tumorigenesis, progression and drug resistance have not been
fully elucidated. An emerging method to study tumors is tumor organoids, which are a
three‑dimensional miniature structure. These retain the patient‑specific tumor heterogeneity while
demonstrating the histological, genetic and molecular features of original tumors. Compared with
conventional cancer cell lines and animal models, patient‑derived tumor organoids are more advanced
at physiological and clinical levels. Their synergistic combination with other technologies, such as
organ‑on‑a‑chip, 3D‑bioprinting, tissue‑engineered cell scaffolds and clustered regularly
interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR‑associated protein 9, may overcome limitations
of the conventional 3D organoid culture and result in the development of more appropriate model
systems that preserve the complex tumor stroma, inter‑organ and intra‑organ communications. The
present review summarizes the evolution of tumor organoids and their combination with advanced
technologies, as well as the application of tumor organoids in basic and clinical research.
