# Enhanced the Trans-Cleavage Activity of CRISPR-Cas12a Using Metal-Organic Frameworks as Stimulants for Efficient Electrochemical Sensing of Circulating Tumor DNA.

**PMID:** 40184611

**Journal:** Advanced science (Weinheim, Baden-Wurttemberg, Germany) (Adv Sci (Weinh))

**Keywords:** CRISPR‐based diagnostics, Cas12a/crRNA, circulating tumor DNA, electrochemical biosensor, metal‐organic framework

## Abstract

Continued development of clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)-powered
biosensing system on the electrochemical interface is vital for accurate and timely diagnosis in
clinical practice. Herein, an electrochemical biosensor based on manganese metal-organic frameworks
(MOFs)-enhanced CRISPR (MME-CRISPR) is proposed that enables the efficient detection of circulating
tumor DNA (ctDNA). In this design, customized enzyme stimulants (Mn<sup>2+</sup>) are co-assembled
with Cas12a/crRNA to form enzyme-MOF composites, which can be released quickly under mild
conditions. The MOFs-induced proximity effect can continuously provide adequate Mn<sup>2+</sup> to
sufficiently interact with Cas12a/crRNA during the release process, enhancing the trans-cleavage
activity of complex available for biosensor construction. The MOFs-based enzyme biocomposites also
afford efficient protection against various external stimulus. It is demonstrated that the developed
biosensor can achieve ultrasensitive detection of epidermal growth factor receptor L858R mutation in
ctDNA with a low detection limit of 0.28 fm without pre-amplification. Furthermore, the engineered
mismatch crRNA enables the biosensor based on MME-CRISPR to detect single nucleotide variant with a
high signal-to-noise ratio. More importantly, it has been successfully used to detect the targets in
clinical practice, requiring low-dose samples and a short time. This strategy is believed to shed
new light on the applications of cancer diagnosis, treatment, and surveillance.
