# Loss of conserved long non-coding RNA MIR503HG leads to altered NOTCH pathway signalling and left ventricular non-compaction cardiomyopathy.

**PMID:** 40183391

**Journal:** Cardiovascular research (Cardiovasc Res)

**Keywords:** Heart development, Left ventricular non-compaction, Long non-coding RNA

## Abstract

The highly conserved long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) MIR505HG has been primarily recognized as a
precursor for microRNAs (miR)-424 and miR-503. However, studies have since demonstrated that
MIR503HG has distinct functions from its associated miRNAs, playing important roles in cell
proliferation, invasion, apoptosis, and differentiation. While these miRNAs are known to influence
cardiomyocyte differentiation, the specific role of MIR503HG in heart development remains
unexplored. We seek to determine how MIR503HG deletion impacts ventricular chamber development and
to identify underlying molecular mechanisms.  To study the role of the lncRNA in vivo, we generated
a functional MIR503HG knockout mouse model (MIR503HG-/-) using a synthetic polyadenylation signal to
terminate MIR503HG transcription without affecting miR-424/503 expression. We performed
morphological analyses on embryonic and adult hearts using microCT along with cardiac functional
analysis via transthoracic echocardiography. We further apply single-nuclei RNA sequencing (snRNA-
seq) on adult hearts to identify potential molecular mechanisms underlying the observed phenotypes.
Functional deletion of MIR503HG alone was associated with reduced compact myocardium thickness and
increased trabecular myocardium in the left ventricle (LV) at embryonic day 17.5 compared to wild-
type mice, indicating a LV non-compaction (LVNC) phenotype. Moreover, adult MIR503HG-/- mutant
hearts showed increased trabecular complexity, impaired LV relaxation, and mitral valve
regurgitation. SnRNA-seq further revealed altered expression of several genes associated with
cardiomyocyte function and LVNC, including Actc1, Mib1, Mybpc3, and Myh7. Lastly, Notch1 activity
was also significantly increased in mutant hearts which has been previously associated with LVNC.
MIR503HG plays a role in ventricular chamber development, and its deletion leads to an LVNC
phenotype independent of the miRNA cluster within its locus, highlighting its importance in cardiac
development and disease. We further suggest that abnormal Notch1 activity may underpin the LVNC
phenotype presented.
