# The distinctive signature of regulatory CD4 T cells committed in the human thymus.

**PMID:** 40207234

**Journal:** Frontiers in immunology (Front Immunol)

**Keywords:** CD4 T cells, FOXP3, RNA-seq, human T-cell development, human thymus, regulatory T cells

## Abstract

Thymically committed regulatory CD4 T cells (tTregs) are essential for immune homeostasis and self-
tolerance. We established the human tTreg Expression Signature by comparing genome-wide
transcriptomic profiles between tTregs and their conventional counterparts (tTconvs). We further
exploited the high sequencing depth of our bulk RNA-seq data to identify a subset of 250 genes
significantly expressed in human tTregs and with neglectable expression in tTconvs, defined as below
the levels of expression of <i>IL2RA</i>, that we named thymic Treg "private" genes. Notably,
pathways related to cell motility, inflammation, and T-cell effector specification were
overrepresented within the tTreg private genes. We found that 163 of these genes were significantly
less expressed in circulating naïve and memory Tregs when compared to peripheral data generated in
parallel. This result suggested a higher activity for most of the "private" genes in the thymus when
compared to the peripheral compartments. Altogether, we provide a unique resource to inform future
studies, such as for improving annotation in single-cell and spatial transcriptional data, or help
in designing human studies to validate putative biomarkers for thymically committed Tregs, a
priority in the field.
