# Modulation of cell fate by shock wave therapy in ischaemic heart disease.

**PMID:** 40201592

**Journal:** European heart journal open (Eur Heart J Open)

**Keywords:** Cardiac surgery, Heart regeneration, Shockwave therapy, Therapeutic transdifferentiation

## Abstract

Cardiac shockwave therapy (SWT) improves left ventricular (LV) function in patients with ischaemic
cardiomyopathy. Shockwave therapy activates Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3), a receptor-inducing
chromatin remodelling and nuclear reprogramming of cardiac cells. We hypothesized that mechanical
activation of TLR3 facilitates reprogramming of fibroblasts towards endothelial cells restoring
myocardial perfusion and function.  Human cardiac fibroblasts were treated by mechanical stimulation
via SWT or TLR3 agonist Poly(I:C) in the presence of endothelial induction medium. A lineage tracing
experiment was performed in a transgenic mouse model of Fsp1-Cre/LacZ mice after coronary occlusion.
Left ventricular function and scarring were assessed. Single-cell sequencing including RNA
trajectory analysis was performed. Chromatin remodelling and epigenetic plasticity were evaluated
via western blot and Assay for Transposase-Accessible Chromatin sequencing. Mechanical stimulation
of human fibroblasts with SWT activated TLR3 signalling and enhanced the expression of endothelial
genes in a TLR3-dependent fashion. The induced endothelial cells (ECs) resembled genuine ECs in that
they produced endothelial nitric oxide and formed tube-like structures in Matrigel. In a lineage
tracing experiment in Fsp1-Cre/LacZ mice, shockwave treatment increased LacZ/CD31-positive cells
(indicating transdifferentiation) after coronary occlusion. Furthermore, SWT reduced myocardial scar
size and improved LV function. Single-cell RNA-seq and RNA trajectory analyses revealed that SWT
induced an endothelial fibroblast cluster and mechanical stimulation induced significant changes in
chromatin organization, with chromatin being more accessible after both treatments in 1705 genomic
regions.  Shockwave therapy enhances DNA accessibility via TLR3 activation and facilitates the
transdifferentiation of fibroblasts towards endothelial cells in ischaemic myocardium.
