# Transcriptomic signatures in peripheral CD4<sup>+</sup>T-lymphocytes may reflect melanoma staging and immunotherapy responsiveness prior to ICI initiation.

**PMID:** 40226614

**Journal:** Frontiers in immunology (Front Immunol)

**Keywords:** CD4+T-cells, bulk RNA-seq, differentially expressed genes, immune checkpoint inhibitors, immunotherapy, resistance

## Abstract

Promoting adaptive immunity with ICIs has drastically improved melanoma prognosis, but not for all
patients. Some cases relapse in the first few months, while others keep durable benefit, even after
immunotherapy discontinuation. To identify cellular/molecular signatures in peripheral blood that
could differentiate advanced from metastatic melanoma and predict dynamics for primary/secondary
immune escape, we examined 100 consecutive patients with stage III/IV melanoma scheduled to start
ICIs.  At melanoma diagnosis, a multiparameter flow cytometric analysis and purification scheme
using standard conjugated antibodies were performed for all individuals prior to ICI initiation. In
each stage(III/IV) according to their RFS/PFS, we retrospectively selected the cases with the
clearest clinical outcomes and focused our analysis on the extreme responders(n=7) and non-
responders(n=7) to characterize the transcriptomes of circulating CD4<sup>+</sup>T-cells by bulk
RNA-seq, Differential Expression Analysis(DEA)and Gene Ontology(GO)enrichment analysis. Based on our
selected patient cohort, we examined for differentially expressed genes(DEGs)and key-pathways that
appear preferentially activated in stage III vs. IV melanoma, and in long vs. short immunotherapy
responders.  Although circulating immune-cells did not numerically differ in both sets of
analysis(staging and ICI responsiveness), DEA and GO data showed that patients could be clustered
separately, identifying 189vs.92 DEGs in stage IV/III and 101vs.47 DEGs in early progressors/long
responders. These DEGs were functionally implicated in distinct pathways. For metastatic cases:
inflammatory response(logp-value=-9.2:ADGRE5/2,CYBA,GRN,HMOX1,IRF5,ITGAM), adaptive immunity(logp-
value=-7.7:CD1C,CD74,CYBB,NCF2,CTSA,S100A8/9,BCL3,FCER1G), T-cell activation(logp-
value=-6.3:BCL3,CD1C,CD74,FCER1G,FGL2)and lipid metabolism/catabolism(logp-
value=-2.5/-2.6:ARF3,GPX1,MVD,OCRL,PCCB,CTSA,PNPLA2,NAGLU,GBA2,ABHD4); while in early-progressors to
ICIs: immune effector processing(logp-value=-13.7:BCL6,FGR,HLA-DQA1/DQB1,HLA-DRA,HLA-
DRB1/DRB5,NKG7,SLC11A1,TYROBP,SPON2,HAVCR2),PD-1(logp-value=-10.2:HLA-DQA1/DQB1,HLA-DRA,HLA-
DRB1/DRB5)and IFN signaling(logp-value=-8.5: HLA-DQA1/DQB1,HLA-DRA,HLA-
DRB1/DRB5,NCAM1,IFITM3),positive regulation of T-cell activation(logp-value=-7.7:BCL6,HLA-
DQA1/DQB1,HLA-DRA,HLA-DRB1/DRB5,SASH3,HAVCR2)and CD28 co-stimulation(logp-value=-10.3:HLA-
DQA1/DQB1,HLA-DRA,HLA-DRB1/DRB5), supporting an immune-mediated behavior.  Specific pathways and
marker genes in the peripheral CD4<sup>+</sup>T-cells may predetermine melanoma staging and
immunotherapy resistance.
