# Acidosis regulates immune progression in rheumatoid arthritis by promoting the expression of cytokines and co-stimulatory molecules in synovial fibroblasts.

**PMID:** 40234753

**Journal:** Molecular medicine (Cambridge, Mass.) (Mol Med)

**Keywords:** AP- 1, Acidosis, Cytokine, Multi-omics, Rheumatoid arthritis

## Abstract

Tissue acidosis is a key characteristic of RA. It remains unclear whether acidosis promotes the
formation of the complex adaptive immune landscape mainly characterized by T cell activation in RA
by influencing synovial fibroblasts. This study aims to investigate the influence of acidosis on the
immune microenvironment of RA by exploring the cytokine secretion and expression of co-stimulatory
factors of RA synovial fibroblasts.  The Bulk RNA-seq dataset (GSE89408, Normal = 23, RA = 150) was
utilized for cytokine screening and the immune state assessment based on disease stage. RNA-seq was
employed to investigate cytokine and co-stimulatory molecule expression following 6 h of acid
stimulation, combined with Bulk RNA-seq data to evaluate contributions to RA. Human cytokine arrays
were used to confirm cytokine accumulation in supernatants after 12 h of acid stimulation.
Proteomics was applied to explore cellular functional states in RASFs under 6 h of acid stress, with
joint RNA-seq analysis elucidating transcription factor activation. Validation of select high-
throughput data was performed using qRT-PCR and immune-based assays.  Bulk RNA-seq and RNA-seq
identified 56 differentially expressed cytokines at their intersection. Functional enrichment
analysis demonstrated that acid stimulation enhanced cytokine secretion and T cell chemotaxis in RA
synovial fibroblasts (RASFs). Cytokine array revealed that acid exposure increased the accumulation
of growth factors (e.g., FGF, VEGF) by over twofold and promoted the expression of multiple
inflammatory and chemotactic factors. Immune state analysis indicated that acid stimulation induced
a complex immune landscape by upregulating co-stimulatory and antigen-presenting molecules.
Proteomics showed that acid stress enhanced mitochondrial function and triggered metabolic
reprogramming in RASFs. Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses revealed that AP1 regulates
gene expression in RASFs, with its activation further confirmed by Western blotting and
immunofluorescence.
