# Precision screening facilitates clinical classification of BRCA2-PALB2 binding variants with benign and pathogenic functional effects.

**PMID:** 40232841

**Journal:** The Journal of clinical investigation (J Clin Invest)

**Keywords:** Breast cancer, DNA repair, Genetic diseases, Genetics, Oncology

## Abstract

Decoding the clinical impact of genetic variants is particularly important for precision medicine in
cancer. Genetic screening of mainly breast and ovarian cancer patients has identified numerous
BRCA1/BRCA2 'variants of uncertain significance' (VUS) that remain unclassified due to a lack of
pedigrees and functional data.  Here, we used CRISPR-Select - a technology that exploits unique
inbuilt controls at the endogenous locus - to assess 54 rare ClinVar VUS located in the
PALB2-binding domain (PBD) of BRCA2. Variant deleteriousness was examined in the absence and
presence of PARPi, Cisplatin, or Mitomycin C.  Marked functional deficiency was observed for
variants in the exon 2-donor splice region (A22 = (c.66A>C), A22 = (c.66A>G), A22 = (c.66A>T), and
D23H) and Trp31 amino acid (W31G, W31L, and W31C), both critical for BRCA2 function. Moreover, T10K
and G25R resulted in an intermediate phenotype, suggesting these variants are hypomorphic in nature.
Combining our functional results with the latest ClinGen BRCA1/2 Variant Curation Expert Panel
recommendations, we could classify 49 of the 54 VUS as either likely benign (n = 45) or likely
pathogenic (n = 4).  Hence, CRISPR-Select is an important tool for efficient variant clinical
classification. Application of this technology in the future will ultimately improve patient care.
Danish Cancer Society, Novo Nordisk Foundation, Sygeforsikring Danmark, Børnecancerfonden, Neye-
Fonden, Roche, Novartis, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, MSD, and Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH.
