# Cost-effectiveness of population-based expanded reproductive carrier screening for genetic diseases in Australia: a microsimulation analysis.

**PMID:** 40240435

**Journal:** European journal of human genetics : EJHG (Eur J Hum Genet)

## Abstract

Using the Australian Census survey 2021 as base population, a microsimulation model, PreconMOD was
developed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of population-based expanded reproductive carrier
screening (RCS) for 569 recessive conditions from the health service and societal perspectives. The
model simulated the effect of expanded RCS including the downstream interventions for at-risk
couples on cost and outcomes. The comparators were (i) no population screening (ii) limited
screening for cystic fibrosis, spinal muscular atrophy, and fragile X syndrome and (iii) a 300
conditions screening panel. Averted affected births and health service cost with expanded RCS were
projected to year 2061. At a 50% uptake, our model predicts that expanded RCS is cost saving (i.e.,
higher quality-adjusted life-years and lower costs) compared with other screening strategies in the
model from the health service and societal perspectives. The number of affected births averted in a
single cohort would increase from 84 [95% confidence interval (CI) 60-116] with limited screening to
2067 (95%CI 1808-2376) with expanded RCS. Expanded RCS was cost-saving compared to the
300-conditions screening panel. Indirect cost accounted for about one-third of the total costs
associated with recessive disorders. Our model predicts that the direct treatment cost associated
with current limited 3 genes screening would increase by 20% each year to A$73.4 billion to the
health system by 2061. Our findings contribute insights on the cost burden of genetic diseases and
the economic benefits of expanded RCS to better informed resource allocation decisions.
