# CRISPR-dependent base editing as a therapeutic strategy for rare monogenic disorders.

**PMID:** 40242216

**Journal:** Frontiers in genome editing (Front Genome Ed)

**Keywords:** CRISPR-based therapeutics, base editing, gene therapy, mutation correction, rare monogenic disease

## Abstract

Rare monogenic disorders are caused by mutations in single genes and have an incidence rate of less
than 0.5%. Due to their low prevalence, these diseases often attract limited research and commercial
interest, leading to significant unmet medical needs. In a therapeutic landscape where treatments
are targeted to manage symptoms, gene editing therapy emerges as a promising approach to craft
curative and lasting treatments for these patients, often referred to as "one-and-done"
therapeutics. CRISPR-dependent base editing enables the precise correction of genetic mutations by
direct modification of DNA bases without creating potentially deleterious DNA double-strand breaks.
Base editors combine a nickase version of Cas9 with cytosine or adenine deaminases to convert C·G to
T·A and A·T to G·C, respectively. Together, cytosine (CBE) and adenine (ABE) base editors can
theoretically correct ∼95% of pathogenic transition mutations cataloged in ClinVar. This mini-review
explores the application of base editing as a therapeutic approach for rare monogenic disorders. It
provides an overview of the state of gene therapies and a comprehensive compilation of preclinical
studies using base editing to treat rare monogenic disorders. Key considerations for designing base
editing-driven therapeutics are summarized in a user-friendly guide for researchers interested in
applying this technology to a specific rare monogenic disorder. Finally, we discuss the prospects
and challenges for bench-to-bedside translation of base editing therapies for rare monogenic
disorders.
