# Cystic Fibrosis-related neurodegenerative disease associated with tauopathy and cognitive decline in aged CF mice.

**PMID:** 40240239

**Journal:** Journal of cystic fibrosis : official journal of the European Cystic Fibrosis Society (J Cyst Fibros)

**Keywords:** Cognition, Cystic fibrosis, Dementia, Tauopathy

## Abstract

Highly effective modulator therapies (HEMT) are increasing the lifespan for many people with cystic
fibrosis (pwCF), making it necessary to identify and understand CF specific age-related
consequences. In this study, we examine the impact of aging on cognitive function and age-related
brain pathology in a CF mouse model focusing on phospho-Tau (pTau) pathology.  Cognitive function
was measured by novel object recognition and spontaneous alternation behavior tests. Hippocampal
neuronal function was assessed by measuring long-term potentiation (LTP) electrophysiology, the
synaptic correlate of learning and memory. Tau pathology was assessed by immunohistochemical
analyses and western blot assessment of pTau levels in CF mouse brain, as well as human nasal
epithelial cells isolated from pwCF.  Cognitive function declined progressively with age in Cftr
(G542X/G542X) (G542X) mice, a model of CF, compared to wild-type (WT) littermate controls. LTP was
also deficient in older G542X mice. Increased pTau was observed by staining and western blot
analysis in the hippocampus of aged CF mice. Secondary impacts of tauopathy, including increased
microglial uptake of cholesterol and reduced neuronal density were also observed. Lastly, human
nasal epithelial cells from pwCF were found to display elevated pTau levels compared to non-CF
controls.  Aging CF mice develop tauopathy, cognitive decline, LTP impairment, microglial
activation, and neurodegeneration that is not experienced by age-matched WT littermates, a condition
herein termed cystic fibrosis-related neurodegeneration (CFND). These findings suggest that pwCF may
be at risk for tauopathy-related neurodegeneration and cognitive impairment with aging.
