# Integration of volatile and non-volatile metabolites and the transcriptome reveals the formation mechanisms of differential aroma compounds between <i>Pyrus communis</i> and <i>Pyrus pyrifolia</i> cultivars.

**PMID:** 40241828

**Journal:** Frontiers in plant science (Front Plant Sci)

**Keywords:** aroma compounds, pear fruit, synthesis pathways, transcriptome, volatile metabolite

## Abstract

Aroma compounds are important flavor components in pear fruit. Among cultivated pears, fruits from
<i>Pyrus communis</i> (hereafter referred to as <i>P. communis</i>) cultivars are famous for their
abundant aroma, while the fruits of most <i>Pyrus pyrifolia</i> (hereafter referred to as <i>P.
pyrifolia</i>) cultivars lack aroma compounds. A comparative study on the formation of differential
aroma compounds between the two species could provide a theoretical foundation for improving the
aroma quality of <i>P. pyrifolia</i> cultivars. However, there is a lack of systematic research on
this subject.  An analysis of volatile and non-volatile metabolites was combined with transcriptome
analysis to explore the formation mechanism of differential aroma compounds between three <i>P.
communis</i> and three <i>P. pyrifolia</i> cultivars.  In this study, a total of 510 volatile
compounds were identified in the six cultivars. Of these, sixteen ester and alcohol compounds,
including butyl acetate, hexyl acetate, ethyl-2-methylbutyrate, ethanol, butanol, propanol, and
2-methylbutanol, with higher contents in the <i>P. communis</i> cultivars than in the <i>P.
pyrifolia</i> cultivars were identified as the primary differential aroma compounds. Among the
possible synthesis pathways for these 16 aroma compounds, certain amino acid degradation processes,
including isoleucine, valine, and alanine oxidation and threonine dehydration, were found to provide
important intermediate substances for synthesis. Within the key enzyme genes in the synthesis
pathway, several critical enzyme genes, including monoacylglycerol lipase (PcMAGL, pycom08g09340),
threonine dehydrase (PcTD, pycom12g10020), and acyl CoA dehydrogenase (PcACD, pycom16g13880), might
be important factors contributing to the disparity in aromatic compounds between <i>P. communis</i>
and <i>P. pyrifolia</i> cultivars.  The aforementioned results provide valuable information into the
formation mechanisms of differential aroma compounds and offer novel target sites for enhancing pear
aroma quality through gene editing.
