# ADAR1-high tumor-associated macrophages induce drug resistance and are therapeutic targets in colorectal cancer.

**PMID:** 40241135

**Journal:** Molecular cancer (Mol Cancer)

**Keywords:** Biomarker, Chemoresistance, Colorectal cancer, Macrophage, RNA-editing

## Abstract

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is considered the third most common type of cancer worldwide. Tumor-
associated macrophages (TAMs) have been shown to promote drug resistance. Adenosine-to-inosine RNA-
editing, as regulated by adenosine deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR), is a process that induces the
posttranscriptional modification of critical oncogenes. The aim of this study is to determine
whether the signals from cancer cells would induce RNA-editing in macrophages.  The effects of RNA-
editing on phenotypes in macrophages were analyzed using clinical samples and in vitro and in vivo
models.  The intensity of the RNA-editing enzyme ADAR1 (Adenosine deaminase acting on RNA 1) in
cancer and mononuclear cells indicated a strong positive correlation between the nucleus and
cytoplasm. The ADAR1-positive mononuclear cells were positive for CD68 and CD163, a marker for M2
macrophages. Cancer cells transport pro-inflammatory cytokines or ADAR1 protein directly to
macrophages via the exosomes, promoting RNA-editing in AZIN1 (Antizyme Inhibitor 1) and GLI1
(Glioma-Associated Oncogene Homolog 1) and resulting in M2 macrophage polarization. GLI1 RNA-editing
in the macrophages induced by cancer cells promotes the secretion of SPP1, which is supplied to the
cancer cells. This activates the NFκB pathway in cancer cells, promoting oxaliplatin resistance.
When the JAK inhibitors were administered, oncogenic RNA-editing in the macrophages was suppressed.
This altered the macrophage polarization from M2 to M1 and decreased oxaliplatin resistance in
cancer cells.  This study revealed that ADAR1-high TAMs are crucial in regulating drug resistance in
CRC and that targeting ADAR1 in TAMs could be a promising treatment approach for overcoming drug
resistance in CRC.
