# Quantitative MRI detects delayed perfusion and impact of bronchial artery dilatation on pulmonary circulation in patients with cystic fibrosis.

**PMID:** 40240556

**Journal:** European radiology (Eur Radiol)

**Keywords:** Bronchial arteries, Cystic fibrosis, Dynamic contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging, Hemoptysis, Magnetic resonance imaging

## Abstract

MRI detects abnormal lung perfusion in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). However, little is known
about the contribution of bronchial arteries to lung perfusion in CF. We hypothesized that delayed
perfusion can be detected by dynamic contrast-enhanced (DCE-)MRI and that bronchial artery
dilatation (BAD) is associated with changes in lung perfusion.  Morpho-functional MRI was
prospectively acquired in 75 patients with CF (18.7 ± 7.6 years, range 6-39 years). Lungs and
perfusion defects were segmented automatically to quantify perfusion defects in percent (QDP).
Pulmonary blood flow (PBF), mean transit time (MTT), and perfusion delay were calculated for the
whole lung, inside normally perfused and perfusion defect areas. Chest MRI score and BAD were
assessed visually.  QDP and PBF correlated with MRI global score (r = 0.58 and -0.53, p < 0.001). In
normally perfused lung, PBF was higher (161.2 ± 77.9 mL/100 mL/min vs. 57.5 ± 26.4 mL/100 mL/min,
p < 0.001), and MTT (5.4 ± 1.7 s vs. 6.9 ± 2.3 s, p < 0.001) and perfusion delay were shorter than
in perfusion defect areas (4.6 ± 5.3 s vs. 13.4 ± 16.2 s, p < 0.001). 48 (64.0%) patients showed
BAD, had higher QDP (44.6 ± 20.8% vs. 17.3 ± 11.0%, p < 0.001) and lower PBF
(91.9 ± 54.8 mL/100 mL/min vs. 178.3 ± 77.4 mL/100 mL/min, p < 0.001) than patients without BAD. MTT
was shorter (6.3 ± 1.9 s vs. 8.0 ± 2.6 s, p < 0.001), and perfusion delay was longer (13.8 ± 10.1 s
vs. 12.8 ± 23.7 s, p < 0.02) inside perfusion defects of patients with BAD compared to without BAD.
Perfusion parameters correlate with lung disease severity, and perfusion defects showed delayed
perfusion in patients with CF. BAD was associated with more extensive perfusion defects and reduced
PBF.  Question Dilated bronchial arteries are a common comorbidity in cystic fibrosis (CF), which
can cause hemoptysis, but their quantitative contribution to lung perfusion is little researched.
Findings Perfusion defects in percent (QDP) enabled objective assessment of perfusion abnormalities
in CF patients, while perfusion delay and arterial correlation showed bronchial artery perfusion
contribution. Clinical relevance The usage of quantitative perfusion metrics in CF may help tracking
disease progression. By also including the proposed metrics perfusion delay and arterial
correlation, bronchial artery inflow could be assessed and used to detect early onset of bronchial
artery dilation.
